On 27 January 2020, a 60-year-old Chinese male reported to the hospital that he was not well and sought treatment. 
Little did he know that he would become Cambodia’s first recorded COVID-19 positive case, exactly one year ago, albeit a day short. 
Since the first case was recorded, the initial panic and precautions which sprung into place almost automatically, soon dissipated when no further cases were reported for about five weeks before the second case was reported, this time a 38-year-old Cambodian taxi driver who was infected by an expatriate. 
Some form of urgency returned and it grew when the third case was reported on 10 March on board a Cruise Boat in Kompong Cham. 
On hindsight, this was Cambodia’s first cluster as eight passengers were infected and tested positive from the 10th of March to 24 March, 2020, by which time Cambodia’s COVID-19 cases had ballooned to 91. 
By this time, Cambodia’s first cases, imported community cluster broke out when almost 100 Cambodians returned from a religious ceremony in Malaysia and infections started showing up from Thbong Khmum to Kampot and to Koh Kong, among other provinces. 
11 Malaysians who had also attended the same event in Malaysia were tested positive in Cambodia as well. 
The 2nd cluster was the French tour group who landed in Sihanoukville after crisscrossing the country from Siem Reap, Battambang until their final stop in the coastal city where close to 30 of them had been infected, along with their local tour guide and drivers. 
Cambodia’s COVID-19 infections were not consistent in the sense that there were multiple cases daily. 
The county went for weeks without any positive cases discovered until another spike would take place. 
The November 28 Community outbreak incident and now the Cambodian migrant workers cluster infections which stands at 82 as of Monday, were two of the single largest infections. 
The super spreader from the November 29 incident has yet to be identified though the strain was isolated and identified. 
The November 29 incident and prior that the November 3 incident involving the Hungarian Foreign Minister sent the capital into panic and shuttered schools, many businesses and gatherings yet again. 
But, amidst the doom and gloom and skepticism on Cambodia’s infection rates, no deaths has been reported and even though there were periods when it appeared that testing facilities would be over whelmed, Cambodia managed to pull through and still managed to keep it under control with quick stern measures to curb the spread of the pandemic. 
These measures were not well received but was necessary and soon the people fell into place. 
However, now that the capital has hardly registered positive cases except for the imported cases comprising Cambodians returning home from USA and other countries, the new normal urged by the PM has been hardly followed and has been largely ignored. 
Now talks of vaccines have surfaced regularly off late but without any full clarity.